what is meditation and how can we use
meditation
to alleviate our suffering and achieve
peace of mind
it's probably a bit more complicated
than most people think
when we meditate we watch our thoughts
while focusing our attention on a
certain anchor that keeps us in the
present
for example the breath while watching
the breath
we observe how our thoughts come and go
along with our feelings and emotions
and when we get dragged into them we
bring back our attention to our anchor
but this isn't the whole story
meditation isn't just about watching our
inner processes
it's a tool to transform and cultivate
the mind
used in spiritual practices as we see in
buddhism and hinduism
cultivating the mind is like a gardening
project
by meditating we train ourselves to
become aware of our inner garden
so we can cultivate as well as protect
it
this means that we prevent weeds from
growing
eradicate the weeds that are already
present and replace them
with beautiful plants and trees a
well-tended garden
resembles a serene and joyful mind
this video explores the art of
meditation
[Music]
when you investigate yourself you'll
find three things
one that your thoughts feelings and
emotions are impermanent
2. that there is no solid or fixed self
and 3 that we're mostly in a state of
dissatisfaction
this means that we're always looking for
pleasure running from pain
and that who we think we are and what we
want is constantly shifting
most of the time we are pushed around by
our environment
that not only dictates what we should
and shouldn't want but also strongly
influences
how we feel and what we think a mind
that's subject to the whims of its
surroundings is what the buddhists call
the monkey mind the monkey mind is
untrained
and as a consequence it's in an ongoing
pursuit
of century pleasures like a monkey
swinging from branch to branch
untrained minds are led by impulses
they're
mirrors of the surrounding world when we
have such minds
and let's face it most people do we are
in pain
not so much because of the world itself
but because we're ill-informed about the
reality of existence
for example we think that century
pleasure equals happiness
while in reality this isn't the case or
that we're somehow entitled to certain
objects
experiences or people while in reality
we aren't this causes destructive mental
states
like greed hatred and anger
let's imagine the mind as a garden in a
city surrounded by a stone wall
with one gate there are six roads that
lead into the city
these roads resemble the six sense doors
seeing hearing touching smelling tasting
and ideas
all this information coming from our
senses about the world around us
must go through that one gate before it
can enter
the garden and once it is inside it will
influence the quality
of the garden however it's not the
sensory information
itself that impacts our garden but our
own perceptions
beliefs and ideas regarding that
information
if we are averse to certain people for
example seeing them will be unpleasant
but if we are kind and accepting
to these people seeing them wouldn't be
unpleasant at all and could even be a
joyful experience
thus the garden is filled with sense
perceptions
and our thoughts about them this
interplay decides our mental state
that in turn influences how we behave in
the world
when the gate to the garden is
defenseless and wide open
enemies can enter these enemies come in
the form of delusions that provoke
feelings of hate
or strong desires for certain century
experiences
like trolls ruining a comment section or
viruses affecting a computer these
delusions
wreak havoc on the mind they scream i
need this i hate that it's not enough
i want something else making the mind
suffer an ongoing path
of dissatisfaction they are the bad
weeds that not only need to be pulled
out
they should be prevented from entering
in the first place
but how well the gate to the garden
needs to be guarded and this is the job
of the century the beauty of our garden
depends on the skillfulness
of the sentry whose job it is to
carefully select who can enter
wholesome thoughts that are rational
wise and
truthful about reality may enter
unwholesome thoughts that are irrational
unwise and deceptive are considered the
enemy
and must stay outside the sentry
can also reject sensory information
which doesn't mean that we for example
close our eyes and cover our ears but
that we don't engage
with what the senses pick up because
unwise attention to external things
like over-indulging in food or beauty
but also the excessive engagement in
ideas
damages our garden as over-watering will
destroy a plant
the sentry symbolizes mindfulness the
ability to pay attention
only by paying attention we are able to
discern
friend from foe unfortunately in many
cases
the century isn't well trained and this
is where meditation comes in
meditation is a method to train the
century so
that instead of being a lazy stupid
deadbeat
he or she will be sharp and strong a
trained sentry has the wisdom to decide
who is an enemy and who is a friend and
will prevent
bad influences from entering our garden
and help us to
uproot the weeds that are already
present
when our gardens are well tended we'll
experience
peace joy and serenity as our minds are
filled with wholesome thoughts
and face the reality of life with
clarity
thank you for watching
[Music]
you